okay so without a question here on live
chat how do I really feel about
Cambodian culture and I just made a
lengthy set of declarations that I don't
want to make a video about all the
things I dislike about Cambodian culture
I'm not saying hey I'm saying dislike I
don't want to make a video but all the
reasons why I never wake up in the
morning and wish I was back in Cambodia
I never want to go back in yellow dia I
regret that I ever moved to Cambodia I
regret that I ever lived in Cambodia I
regret that I never studied the
Cambodian languages regret regret regret
never want to go back don't like
anything about it bla bla bla bla bla
but this also inspires me to try to say
one nice thing about Cambodia in
Cambodian culture um if you're seriously
interested in social science research in
studying social problems culture
politics anything Cambodians are the
greatest people in the world for sharing
with you the kind of information that in
other cultures you can't get out of
people you get you things you cannot
learn by asking questions in other
cultures like I was doing research in
Cambodia and you you go up to people and
ask like oh hey um I'm researching
problems in the healthcare system here
you know we hear there are some problems
with the local hospital and they cover
up some of the problems you know what do
you know but that kind of oh yeah yeah
they murdered my son let me tell you the
story like straight up no hesitation no
I could self-confidence they'll sit down
and talk you through the story of how
this [ __ ] hospital how incompetent
people at the hospital murdered their
son and covered it up after her for
social science research it's mind
blowing
you can't like in England you can't walk
into a town in Scotland or England and
just ask people that question and
verbally get this kind of information
you'd have to spend hours and hours
getting the people to trust you you'd
probably have to sign legal forms you
pro have to make promises to them and
say okay don't worry this is going to be
anonymous we're gonna use this for the
study we're gonna invest
you'd have to reassure people the most
sensitive most dangerous most useful
information imaginable people sit down
and really lay it on the table with you
and like when you've just met them you
they don't trust you they don't know you
I remember once and I had already
discussed this with my wife who's now my
ex-wife in case you haven't heard were
we're divorced
walked into a shop where there was a
Cambodian woman and she was in the
tourism business she was in the making
arrangements for tourism business and
she never met me before she'd never met
my wife before but I already explained
to my wife because my wife was an
anthropologist so anthropologists rely
on this type of interview this type of
social science research talking to
people and I said look you know this
culture it's unbelievable for exactly
what you have to poll just do walking in
the shop
and like yeah yeah yeah you know um this
is what I study this is my background
this is my wife she has a PhD in
anthropology we've been thinking about
getting more involved with this
university here but you know here it's
corrupt we hear there's corruption you
know its financial corruption inside the
university and you know this other
university I'm not sure if it's better
or worse you know what do you what do
you think about that and woman sat there
just for a couple sections looking I
said oh well you know um I don't have
any opinion about that if you were to
ask me what I think about financial
corruption inside the university I would
say to you I don't know anything about
that
that's dangerous to talk about I can't
talk about that I don't anything but
that but because you've asked me my
opinion here's what I'm gonna tell you
and then she laid into it look after
that completely surreal caveat if anyone
asks what I know about corruption inside
the university I don't know anything i
have no opinion it's dangerous talk with
that but now here's what I have to tell
you and she laid into it it's like this
is better information like I honestly
think if you work with the police in
America or England you could
get people to provide you this
information it's the nature of
information it's secret and it's
sensitive and it's complex it's
difficult to explain it takes time to
unpack to say ok this is the problem
these people pay bribes to these people
this is what's going on you know get the
whole [ __ ] story laid out free with
passion and immediacy and this is in
English in this case in most of the
research I did was through translators
you know it was in in the Cambodian
language we're talking this was the
[ __ ] you know this is what you're
doing and you know my wife she walked
out of that conversation I don't know
let's say we got like a 20-minute
lecture from this woman we just met
about financial corruption and how the
universities were organized good luck in
Canada anywhere else getting desks and
she was like wow like I see what you
talking about like this blows my mind
like wow this is such an exciting place
to do research at any kind of social
science question but me anything like
that like racism but I mean medical
science like I mentioned with the
hospital you know but obviously like
Party politics like what's going on
within government all kinds of stuff you
can't research anywhere else the
Cambodians were so upfront and
in-your-face and forthcoming with it and
it was inspiring it made you want to be
more of an honest person you know it
made you its courage it's really it's
courageous it's having the courage to
speak the truth when it matters right
that's that's what Cambodians have but
unfortunately what it's linked to is
arrogance and one of the reasons why
they'll say that to you is their extreme
arrogance and like I gave a lecture I
was a scholar of Buddhism I had so many
years of studying Buddhism in Pali and I
remember there was one guy who came in
he was Cambodian guy but he spoke in
English my lecture was in English was in
Cambodia I give this lecture and it's
fisken complex and he was just waiting
for his turn to talk and when I stopped
giving lecture he stood up and he just
starts giving his own lecture I had the
eyes as nothing to do with what I did
and it's very obvious to me immediately
he knows nothing about Buddhism he's not
a scholar he hasn't read any these texts
and so on and I just stopped as I'm
sorry what do you
why are you doing this and I also
pointed out that actually a couple of
things you said already he wanted to
talk for an hour I stuck them in for you
like I'm sorry that's textually wrong
that's historically wrong that text is
from five hundred years later than this
text when you know your stuff in
Buddhism you just destroy amateur
opinions with Buddhism but it said why
you my real question is why you saying
this why did you come to my lecture on
Buddhism but that's part of the same
thing right that's the same culture of
arrogance this guy woke up in the
morning and thought oh some foreign
scholar of Buddhism is giving a lecture
on on Buddhist philosophy I'm gonna go
and wait for my chance to give my own
lecture to tell them a thing or two
because because they're so [ __ ]
arrogant they're so self-confident they
have that same that same desire to speak
the truth of it matters even when they
don't know what they're talking about
even when they're speaking at a total
total ignorance that I mean you know
there's a self-righteous undercurrent to
it but yeah for social science research
that's so thrilling and I loved it and
with every project I could not believe
the type of data and the type of
eyewitness information you get from
people just just by asking so sure
that's a wonderful redeeming quality the
Cambodian people have and I wish I wish
Canadians could learn from it
but I say again I never want to go back
to Cambodia I never wake up and wish I
was in Cambodia and I'll regret for the
rest of my life that I ever studied the
Cambodian language that I ever moved to
Cambodia that I ever had anything to do
with that country in other ways it's
that bad it's I believe me that it's
really that bad